# Sutra CMS

![](assets/cms-default-theme.png)

<!-- toc -->

Sutra CMS owes much of its inspiration, structure, and concepts to
[Concrete5](http://www.concrete5.org). We copied its view and controller organization, use most of
the same terminology, implemented the “blocks” concept for creating
custom functionality, and use a modified version of its in-page content
editing approach.

To this we added multi-site and multi-lingual, brought content up to the
same level as a page, created a powerful admin application, and baked in
tight integration with Servoy’s web client.

And we wrote it all with Servoy. Which is, well…much more fun and faster
to code with for server-side and business rule tasks than PHP is (ok,
maybe we’re slightly biased!).

***If you are a DIY (do-it-yourself) programmer looking for a
cutting-edge CMS built on a technology stack that can do anything,
you’ve come to the right place!***


As a CMS, it is easy for…
-------------------------

### Users to create and manage data

Site map tree. Code mode, GUI mode, and Real mode page editing (in-page
editing). Page and content versioning. Translation workflow. Share
content at the page level (languages), at the site level, at the install
level, with various output platforms (ie, phone, tablets, structured
documents). See all pages where specific data is being used. Site, page
and data search. Unlimited page meta data for content management
workflows.

### Designers to template

Complete separation from the CMS—just add a few lines of code to a
template file to flow content in. All template resources local to the
template. Click one button to register or update a template with the
CMS. Page versioning tracks which template was used so you can try out
different templates easily.

### Programmers to customize

Create a block for any content type (included block starter template).
Extend current blocks with custom views. Clear sandboxing—extend core
Sutra CMS modules without overwriting your code. Simple AJAX hooks. No
PHP—code with Servoy. JQuery installed by default.

### Marketers to promote and track

SEO: site defaults, page overrides, versioned with page versioning, by
language. Auto site maps with page opt-out. Google analytics.

### Administrators to manage

Rich GUI multi-site administration application.

As a Servoy-based Java Stack CMS, you get….
-------------------------------------------

### Server-side coding in JavaScript

Use the same language server-side that you use client-side. Or get
low-level and write Java code directly (Servoy uses Rhino JavaScript).

### Best debugger on the planet

Throw in a break point and find your bugs fast.

### Multi-site and SaaS designed into the core

Run as many sites as your hardware can handle from one Servoy Server.
Share data between all installed sites. Hooks for using Servoy’s record
filtering to restrict user access. Use Servoy’s, your own, or Data
Sutra’s access and control tools.

### Code sync with multiple developers

Pick your flavor—CVS, SVN, Git, etc. Servoy hooks directly into any
versioning system and provides a complete GUI interface.

### Enterprise data, services and workflow integration

The enterprise understands Java. JDBC, SQL, triggers, webservices,
scheduled actions—Servoy is the Swiss Army Knife of integrating
disparate enterprise data, services and workflows.

### Manage staging and deployment servers

Updating Servoy Servers with your latest build takes but a few clicks.
If you mess something up, just roll back.

### Scale up (and out)

Run many Servoy Servers in sync. Use various 3rd party web-caching
solutions. All Sutra CMS content is stored as key/value pairs so
theoretically you could use a NoSQL data storage with a little work.

### A no-brainer to integrate with Servoy solutions

Install on the same Servoy Server and you’re good to go.

### Make Servoy Web Client solutions look good

Real URL’s: links to each form and record, SEO friendly, browser history
works. Use Servoy Web Client just for CRUD—leave the navigation up to
Sutra CMS and surrounding design duties to real web designers.

When used with the Sutra ecosystem….
------------------------------------

### Ready to go with the Data Sutra application platform

Application level duties such as form and record navigation, searching,
layout manager, group and user management, etc—are not written into
Sutra CMS. Instead, Sutra CMS handles only CMS functionality and is
meant to be driven by an application platform or frameworks. The big
advantage here is that Sutra CMS can easily be integrated with other
applications. When used with Data Sutra, you can install Sutra CMS and
be ready to go right away.

### Integrates seamlessly with other Sutras

Sutra CMS is just one of many applications in the Sutra ecosystem. Need
a CMS, CRM and project management? Install them together and go. If you
don’t see a solution listed, contact us. We’re likely to have code lying
around and not packaged up yet that does what you need.

### Fastest way to integrate business workflow functionality

Data Sutra is the fastest way to create and deploy your own solutions
using Servoy. Need a custom content management workflow? Need to hook
into your enterprise data? Need to expose an API? Write your own
modules.  